" Very interesting - very interesting , indeed ! " said Holmes , peering at this sinister relic .
" Anything more ? "
In silence Baynes led the way to the sink and held forward his candle .
The limbs and body of some large , white bird , torn savagely to pieces with the feathers still on , were littered all over it .
Holmes pointed to the wattles on the severed head .
" A white cock , " said he .
" Most interesting !
It is really a very curious case . "
But Mr . Baynes had kept his most sinister exhibit to the last .
&gt;From under the sink he drew a zinc pail which contained a quantity of blood .
Then from the table he took a platter heaped with small pieces of charred bone .
" Something has been killed and something has been burned .
We raked all these out of the fire .
We had a doctor in this morning .
He says that they are not human . "
Holmes smiled and rubbed his hands .
" I must congratulate you , Inspector , on handling so distinctive and instructive a case .
Your powers , if I may say so without offence , seem superior to your opportunities . "
Inspector Baynes 's small eyes twinkled with pleasure .
" You 're right , Mr . Holmes .
We stagnate in the provinces .
A case of this sort gives a man a chance , and I hope that I shall take it .
What do you make of these bones ? "
" A lamb , I should say , or a kid . "
" And the white cock ? "
" Curious , Mr . Baynes , very curious .
I should say almost unique . "
" Yes , sir , there must have been some very strange people with some very strange ways in this house .
One of them is dead .
Did his companions follow him and kill him ?
If they did we should have them , for every port is watched .
But my own views are different .
Yes , sir , my own views are very different . "
" You have a theory then ? "
" And I 'll work it myself , Mr . Holmes .
It 's only due to my own credit to do so .
Your name is made , but I have still to make mine .
I should be glad to be able to say afterwards that I had solved it without your help . "
Holmes laughed good-humoredly .
" Well , well , Inspector , " said he .
" Do you follow your path and I will follow mine .
My results are always very much at your service if you care to apply to me for them .
I think that I have seen all that I wish in this house , and that my time may be more profitably employed elsewhere .
Au revoir and good luck ! "
I could tell by numerous subtle signs , which might have been lost upon anyone but myself , that Holmes was on a hot scent .
As impassive as ever to the casual observer , there were none the less a subdued eagerness and suggestion of tension in his brightened eyes and brisker manner which assured me that the game was afoot .
After his habit he said nothing , and after mine I asked no questions .
Sufficient for me to share the sport and lend my humble help to the capture without distracting that intent brain with needless interruption .
All would come round to me in due time .
I waited , therefore - but to my ever-deepening disappointment I waited in vain .
Day succeeded day , and my friend took no step forward .
One morning he spent in town , and I learned from a casual reference that he had visited the British Museum .
Save for this one excursion , he spent his days in long and often solitary walks , or in chatting with a number of village gossips whose acquaintance he had cultivated .
" I 'm sure , Watson , a week in the country will be invaluable to you , " he remarked .
" It is very pleasant to see the first green shoots upon the hedges and the catkins on the hazels once again .
With a spud , a tin box , and an elementary book on botany , there are instructive days to be spent . "
He prowled about with this equipment himself , but it was a poor show of plants which he would bring back of an evening .