His friend and secretary , Mr . Lucas , is undoubtedly a foreigner , chocolate brown , wily , suave , and catlike , with a poisonous gentleness of speech .
You see , Watson , we have come already upon two sets of foreigners - one at Wisteria Lodge and one at High Gable - so our gaps are beginning to close .
" These two men , close and confidential friends , are the centre of the household ; but there is one other person who for our immediate purpose may be even more important .
Henderson has two children - girls of eleven and thirteen .
Their governess is a Miss Burnet , an Englishwoman of forty or thereabouts .
There is also one confidential manservant .
This little group forms the real family , for their travel about together , and Henderson is a great traveller , always on the move .
It is only within the last weeks that he has returned , after a year 's absence , to High Gable .
I may add that he is enormously rich , and whatever his whims may be he can very easily satisfy them .
For the rest , his house is full of butlers , footmen , maidservants , and the usual overfed , underworked staff of a large English country house .
" So much I learned partly from village gossip and partly from my own observation .
There are no better instruments than discharged servants with a grievance , and I was lucky enough to find one .
I call it luck , but it would not have come my way had I not been looking out for it .
As Baynes remarks , we all have our systems .
It was my system which enabled me to find John Warner , late gardener of High Gable , sacked in a moment of temper by his imperious employer .
He in turn had friends among the indoor servants who unite in their fear and dislike of their master .
So I had my key to the secrets of the establishment .
" Curious people , Watson !
I don 't pretend to understand it all yet , but very curious people anyway .
It 's a double-winged house , and the servants live on one side , the family on the other .
There 's no link between the two save for Henderson 's own servant , who serves the family 's meals .
Everything is carried to a certain door , which forms the one connection .
Governess and children hardly go out at all , except into the garden .
Henderson never by any chance walks alone .
His dark secretary is like his shadow .
The gossip among the servants is that their master is terribly afraid of something .
'Sold his soul to the devil in exchange for money , ' says Warner , 'and expects his creditor to come up and claim his own . '
Where they came from , or who they are , nobody has an idea .
They are very violent .
Twice Henderson has lashed at folk with his dog-whip , and only his long purse and heavy compensation have kept him out of the courts .
" Well , now , Watson , let us judge the situation by this new information .
We may take it that the letter came out of this strange household and was an invitation to Garcia to carry out some attempt which had already been planned .
Who wrote the note ?
It was someone within the citadel , and it was a woman .
Who then but Miss Burnet , the governess ?
All our reasoning seems to point that way .
At any rate , we may take it asa hypothesis and see what consequences it would entail .
I may add that Miss Burnet 's age and character make it certain that my first idea that there might be a love interest in our story is out of the question .
" If she wrote the note she was presumably the friend and confederate of Garcia .
What , then , might she be expected to do if she heard of his death ?
If he met it in some nefarious enterprise her lips might be sealed .
Still , in her heart , she must retain bitterness and hatred against those who had killed him and would presumably help so far as she could to have revenge upon them .
Could we see her , then and try to use her ?
That was my first thought .
But now we come to a sinister fact .
Miss Burnet has not been seen by any human eye since the night of the murder .
From that evening she has utterly vanished .
Is she alive ?
Has she perhaps met her end on the same night as the friend whom she had summoned ?
Or is she merely a prisoner ?
There is the point which we still have to decide .
" You will appreciate the difficulty of the situation , Watson .
There is nothing upon which we can apply for a warrant .
Our whole scheme might seem fantastic if laid before a magistrate .
The woman 's disappearance counts for nothing , since in that extraordinary household any member of it might be invisible for a week .
And yet she may at the present moment be in danger of her life .
All I can do is to watch the house and leave my agent , Warner , on guard at the gates .
We can 't let such a situation continue .
If the law can do nothing we must take the risk ourselves . "
" What do you suggest ? "
" I know which is her room .
It is accessible from the top of an outhouse .
My suggestion is that you and I go to-night and see if we can strike at the very heart of the mystery . "
It was not , I must confess , a very alluring prospect .
The old house with its atmosphere of murder , the singular and formidable inhabitants , the unknown dangers of the approach , and the fact that we were putting ourselves legally in a false position all combined to damp my ardour .
But there was something in the icecold reasoning of Holmes which made it impossible to shrink from any adventure which he might recommend .
One knew that thus , and only thus , could a solution be found .
I clasped his hand in silence , and the die was cast .
But it was not destined that our investigation should have so adventurous an ending .
It was about five o 'clock , and the shadows of the March evening were beginning to fall , when an excited rustic rushed into our room .
" They 've gone , Mr . Holmes .
They went by the last train .
The lady broke away , and I 've got her in a cab downstairs . "
" Excellent , Warner ! " cried Holmes , springing to his feet .
" Watson , the gaps are closing rapidly . "
In the cab was a woman , half-collapsed from nervous exhaustion .
She bore upon her aquiline and emaciated face the traces of some recent tragedy .
Her head hung listlessly upon her breast , but as she raised it and turned her dull eyes upon us I saw that her pupils were dark dots in the centre of the broad gray iris .
She was drugged with opium .
" I watched at the gate , same as you advised , Mr . Holmes , " said our emissary , the discharged gardener .
" When the carriage came out I followed it to the station .
She was like one walking in her sleep , but when they tried to get her into the train she came to life and struggled .
They pushed her into the carriage .
She fought her way out again .
I took her part , got her into a cab , and here we are .
I shan 't forget the face at the carriage window as I led her away .
I 'd have a short life if he had his way - the black-eyed , scowling , yellow devil . "
We carried her upstairs , laid her on the sofa , and a couple of cups of the strongest coffee soon cleared her brain from the mists of the drug .
Baynes had been summoned by Holmes , and the situation rapidly explained to him .
" Why , sir , you 've got me the very evidence I want , " said the inspector warmly , shaking my friend by the hand .
" I was on the same scent as you from the first . "
" What !
You were after Henderson ? "
" Why , Mr . Holmes , when you were crawling in the shrubbery at High Gable I was up one of the trees in the plantation and saw you down below .
It was just who would get his evidence first . "
" Then why did you arrest the mulatto ? "
Baynes chuckled .
" I was sure Henderson , as he calls himself , felt that he was suspected , and that he would lie low and make no move so long as he thought he was in any danger .
I arrested the wrong man to make him believe that our eyes were off him .
I knew he would be likely to clear off then and give us a chance of getting at Miss Burnet . "
Holmes laid his hand upon the inspector 's shoulder .
" You will rise high in your profession .
You have instinct and intuition , " said he .
Baynes flushed with pleasure .
" I 've had a plain-clothes man waiting at the station all the week .
Wherever the High Gable folk go he will keep them in sight .
But he must have been hard put to it when Miss Burnet broke away .
However , your man picked her up , and it all ends well .
We can 't arrest without her evidence , that is clear , so the sooner we get a statement the better . "