A cold and melancholy walk of a couple of miles brought us to a high wooden gate , which opened into a gloomy avenue of chestnuts .
The curved and shadowed drive led us to a low , dark house , pitchblack against a slate-coloured sky .
From the front window upon the left of the door there peeped a glimmer of a feeble light .
" There 's a constable in possession , " said Baynes .
" I 'll knock at the window . "
He stepped across the grass plot and tapped with his hand on the pane .
Through the fogged glass I dimly saw a man spring up from a chair beside the fire , and heard a sharp cry from within the room .
An instant later a white-faced , hardbreathing policeman had opened the door , the candle wavering in his trembling hand .
" What 's the matter , Walters ? " asked Baynes sharply .
The man mopped his forehead with his handkerchief and agave a long sigh of relief .
" I am glad you have come , sir .
It has been a long evening , and I don 't think my nerve is as good as it was . "
" Your nerve , Walters ?
I should not have thought you had a nerve in your body . "
" Well , sir , it 's this lonely , silent house and the queer thing in the kitchen .
Then when you tapped at the window I thought it had come again . "
" That what had come again ? "
" The devil , sir , for all I know .
It was at the window . "
" What was at the window , and when ? "
" It was just about two hours ago .
The light was just fading .
I was sitting reading in the chair .
I don 't know what made me look up , but there was a face looking in at me through the lower pane .
Lord , sir , what a face it was !
I 'll see it in my dreams . "
" Tut , tut , Walters .
This is not talk for a police-constable . "
" I know , sir , I know ; but it shook me , sir , and there 's no use to deny it .
It wasn 't black , sir , nor was it white , nor any colour that I know but a kind of queer shade like clay with a splash of milk in it .
Then there was the size of it - it was twice yours , sir .
And the look of it - the great staring goggle eyes , and the line of white teeth like a hungry beast .
I tell you , sir , I couldn 't move a finger , nor get my breath , till it whisked away and was gone .
Out I ran and through the shrubbery , but thank God there was no one there . "
" If I didn 't know you were a good man , Walters , I should put a black mark against you for this .
If it were the devil himself a constable on duty should never thank God that he could not lay his hands upon him .
I suppose the whole thing is not a vision and a touch of nerves ? "
" That , at least , is very easily settled , " said Holmes , lighting his little pocket lantern .
" Yes , " he reported , after a short examination of the grass bed , " a number twelve shoe , I should say .
If he was all on the same scale as his foot he must certainly have been a giant . "
" What became of him ? "
" He seems to have broken through the shrubbery and made for the road . "
" Well , " said the inspector with a grave and thoughtful face , " whoever he may have been , and whatever he may have wanted , he 's gone for the present , and we have more immediate things to attend to .
Now , Mr . Holmes , with your permission , I will show you round the house . "
The various bedrooms and sitting-rooms had yielded nothing to a careful search .
Apparently the tenants had brought little or nothing with them , and all the furniture down to the smallest details had been taken over with the house .
A good deal of clothing with the stamp of Marx and Co .
, High Holborn , had been left behind .
Telegraphic inquiries had been already made which showed that Marx knew nothing of his customer save that he was a good payer .
Odds and ends , some pipes , a few novels , two of them in Spanish , and old-fashioned pinfire revolver , and a guitar were among the personal property .
" Nothing in all this , " said Baynes , stalking , candle in hand , from room to room .
" But now , Mr . Holmes , I invite your attention to the kitchen . "
It was a gloomy , high-ceilinged room at the back of the house , with a straw litter in one corner , which served apparently as a bed for the cook .
The table was piled with half-eaten dishes and dirty plates , the debris of last night 's dinner .
" Look at this , " said Baynes .
" What do you make of it ? "
He held up his candle before an extraordinary object which stood at the back of the dresser .
It was so wrinkled and shrunken and withered that it was difficult to say what it might have been .
One could but say that it was black and leathery and that it bore some resemblance to a dwarfish , human figure .
At first , as I examined it , I thought that it was a mummified negro baby , and then it seemed a very twisted and ancient monkey .
Finally I was left in doubt as to whether it was animal or human .
A double band of white shells were strung round the centre of it .