Occasionally in our rambles we came across Inspector Baynes .
His fat , red face wreathed itself in smiles and his small eyes glittered as he greeted my companion .
He said little about the case , but from that little we gathered that he also was not dissatisfied at the course of events .
I must admit , however , that I was somewhat surprised when , some five days after the crime , I opened my morning paper to find in large letters :
Holmes sprang in his chair as if he had been stung when I read the headlines .
" By Jove ! " he cried .
" You don 't mean that Baynes has got him ? "
" Apparently , " said I as I read the following report :
" Great excitement was caused in Esher and the neighbouring district when it was learned late last night that an arrest had been effected in connection with the Oxshott murder .
It will be remembered that Mr . Garcia , of Wisteria Lodge , was found dead on Oxshott Common , his body showing signs of extreme violence , and that on the same night his servant and his cook fled , which appeared to show their participation in the crime .
It was suggested , but never proved , that the deceased gentleman may have had valuables in the house , and that their abstraction was the motive of the crime .
Every effort was made by Inspector Baynes , who has the case in hand , to ascertain the hiding place of the fugitives , and he had good reason to believe that they had not gone far but were lurking in some retreat which had been already prepared .
It was certain from the first , however , that they would eventually be detected , as the cook , from the evidence of one or two tradespeople who have caught a glimpse of him through the window , was a man of most remarkable appearance - being a huge and hideous mulatto , with yellowish features of a pronounced negroid type .
This man has been seen since the crime , for he was detected and pursued by Constable Walters on the same evening , when he had the audacity to revisit Wisteria Lodge .
Inspector Baynes , considering that such a visit must have some purpose in view and was likely , therefore , to be repeated , abandoned the house but left an ambuscade in the shrubbery .
The man walked into the trap and was captured last night after a struggle in which Constable Downing was badly bitten by the savage .
We understand that when the prison is brought before the magistrates a remand will be applied for by the police , and that great developments are hoped from his capture . "
" Really we must see Baynes at once , " cried Holmes , picking up his hat .
" We will just catch him before he starts . "
We hurried down the village street and found , as we had expected , that the inspector was just leaving his lodgings .
" You 've seen the paper , Mr . Holmes ? " he asked , holding one out to us .
" Yes , Baynes , I 've seen it .
Pray don 't think it a liberty if I give you a word of friendly warning . "
" Of warning , Mr . Holmes ? "
" I have looked into this case with some care , and I am not convinced that you are on the right lines .
I don 't want you to commit yourself too far unless you are sure . "
" You 're very kind , Mr . Holmes . "
" I assure you I speak for your good . "
It seemed to me that something like a wink quivered for an instant over one of Mr . Baynes 's tiny eyes .
" We agreed to work on our own lines , Mr . Holmes .
That 's what I am doing . "
" Oh , very good , " said Holmes .
" Don 't blame me . "
" No , sir ; I believe you mean well by me .
But we all have our own systems , Mr . Holmes .
You have yours , and maybe I have mine . "
" Let us say no more about it . "
" You 're welcome always to my news .
This fellow is a perfect savage , as strong as a cart-horse and as fierce as the devil .
He chewed Downing 's thumb nearly off before they could master him .
He hardly speaks a word of English , and we can get nothing out of him but grunts . "
" And you think you have evidence that he murdered his late master ? "
" I didn 't say so , Mr . Holmes ; I didn 't say so .
We all have our little ways .
You try yours and I will try mine .
That 's the agreement . "
Holmes shrugged his shoulders as we walked away together .
" I can 't make the man out .
He seems to be riding for a fall .
Well , as he says , we must each try our own way and see what comes of it .
But there 's something in Inspector Baynes which I can 't quite understand . "
" Just sit down in that chair , Watson , " said Sherlock Holmes when we had returned to our apartment at the Bull .
" I want to put you in touch with the situation , as I may need your help to-night .
Let me show you the evolution of this case so far as I have been able to follow it .
Simple as it has been in its leading features , it has none the less presented surprising difficulties in the way of an arrest .
There are gaps in that direction which we have still to fill .
" We will go back to the note which was handed in to Garcia upon the evening of his death .
We may put aside this idea of Baynes 's that Garcia 's servants were concerned in the matter .
The proof of this lies in the fact that it was H E who had arranged for the presence of Scott Eccles , which could only have been done for the purpose of an alibi .
It was Garcia , then , who had an enterprise , and apparently a criminal enterprise , in hand that night in the course of which he met his death .
I say 'criminal ' because only a man with a criminal enterprise desires to establish an alibi .
Who , then , is most likely to have taken his life ?
Surely the person against whom the criminal enterprise was directed .
So far it seems to me that we are on safe ground .
" We can now see a reason for the disappearance of Garcia 's household .
They were A L L confederates in the same unknown crime .
If it came off when Garcia returned , any possible suspicion would be warded off by the Englishman 's evidence , and all would be well .
But the attempt was a dangerous one , and if Garcia did N O T return by a certain hour it was probable that his own life had been sacrificed .
It had been arranged , therefore , that in such a case his two subordinates were to make for some prearranged spot where they could escape investigation and be in a position afterwards to renew their attempt .
That would fully explain the facts , would it not ? "
The whole inexplicable tangle seemed to straighten out before me .
I wondered , as I always did , how it had not been obvious to me before .
" But why should one servant return ? "
" We can imagine that in the confusion of flight something precious , something which he could not bear to part with , had been left behind .
That would explain his persistence , would it not ? "
" Well , what is the next step ? "
" The next step is the note received by Garcia at the dinner .
It indicates a confederate at the other end .
Now , where was the other end ?
I have already shown you that it could only lie in some large house , and that the number of large houses is limited .
My first days in this village were devoted to a series of walks in which in the intervals of my botanical researches I made a reconnaissance of all the large houses and an examination of the family history of the occupants .
One house , and only one , riveted my attention .
It is the famous old Jacobean grange of High Gable , one mile on the farther side of Oxshott , and less than half a mile from the scene of the tragedy .
The other mansions belonged to prosaic and respectable people who live far aloof from romance .
But Mr . Henderson , of High Gable , was by all accounts a curious man to whom curious adventures might befall .
I concentrated my attention , therefore , upon him and his household .
" A singular set of people , Watson - the man himself the most singular of them all .
I managed to see him on a plausible pretext , but I seemed to read in his dark , deepset , brooding eyes that he was perfectly aware of my true business .
He is a man of fifty , strong , active , with iron-gray hair , great bunched black eyebrows , the step of a deer and the air of an emperor - a fierce , masterful man , with a red-hot spirit behind his parchment face .
He is either a foreigner or has lived long in the tropics , for he is yellow and sapless , but tough as whipcord .