A cold and melancholy walk of a couple of miles brought us to a high wooden gate , which opened into a gloomy avenue of chestnuts .
The curved and shadowed drive led us to a low , dark house , pitchblack against a slate-coloured sky .
From the front window upon the left of the door there peeped a glimmer of a feeble light .
" There 's a constable in possession , " said Baynes .
" I 'll knock at the window . "
He stepped across the grass plot and tapped with his hand on the pane .
Through the fogged glass I dimly saw a man spring up from a chair beside the fire , and heard a sharp cry from within the room .
An instant later a white-faced , hardbreathing policeman had opened the door , the candle wavering in his trembling hand .
" What 's the matter , Walters ? " asked Baynes sharply .
The man mopped his forehead with his handkerchief and agave a long sigh of relief .
" I am glad you have come , sir .
It has been a long evening , and I don 't think my nerve is as good as it was . "
" Your nerve , Walters ?
I should not have thought you had a nerve in your body . "
" Well , sir , it 's this lonely , silent house and the queer thing in the kitchen .
Then when you tapped at the window I thought it had come again . "
" That what had come again ? "
" The devil , sir , for all I know .
It was at the window . "
" What was at the window , and when ? "
" It was just about two hours ago .
The light was just fading .
I was sitting reading in the chair .
I don 't know what made me look up , but there was a face looking in at me through the lower pane .
Lord , sir , what a face it was !
I 'll see it in my dreams . "
" Tut , tut , Walters .
This is not talk for a police-constable . "
" I know , sir , I know ; but it shook me , sir , and there 's no use to deny it .
It wasn 't black , sir , nor was it white , nor any colour that I know but a kind of queer shade like clay with a splash of milk in it .
Then there was the size of it - it was twice yours , sir .
And the look of it - the great staring goggle eyes , and the line of white teeth like a hungry beast .
I tell you , sir , I couldn 't move a finger , nor get my breath , till it whisked away and was gone .
Out I ran and through the shrubbery , but thank God there was no one there . "
" If I didn 't know you were a good man , Walters , I should put a black mark against you for this .
If it were the devil himself a constable on duty should never thank God that he could not lay his hands upon him .
I suppose the whole thing is not a vision and a touch of nerves ? "
" That , at least , is very easily settled , " said Holmes , lighting his little pocket lantern .
" Yes , " he reported , after a short examination of the grass bed , " a number twelve shoe , I should say .
If he was all on the same scale as his foot he must certainly have been a giant . "
" What became of him ? "
" He seems to have broken through the shrubbery and made for the road . "
" Well , " said the inspector with a grave and thoughtful face , " whoever he may have been , and whatever he may have wanted , he 's gone for the present , and we have more immediate things to attend to .
Now , Mr . Holmes , with your permission , I will show you round the house . "
The various bedrooms and sitting-rooms had yielded nothing to a careful search .
Apparently the tenants had brought little or nothing with them , and all the furniture down to the smallest details had been taken over with the house .
A good deal of clothing with the stamp of Marx and Co .
, High Holborn , had been left behind .
Telegraphic inquiries had been already made which showed that Marx knew nothing of his customer save that he was a good payer .
Odds and ends , some pipes , a few novels , two of them in Spanish , and old-fashioned pinfire revolver , and a guitar were among the personal property .
" Nothing in all this , " said Baynes , stalking , candle in hand , from room to room .
" But now , Mr . Holmes , I invite your attention to the kitchen . "
It was a gloomy , high-ceilinged room at the back of the house , with a straw litter in one corner , which served apparently as a bed for the cook .
The table was piled with half-eaten dishes and dirty plates , the debris of last night 's dinner .
" Look at this , " said Baynes .
" What do you make of it ? "
He held up his candle before an extraordinary object which stood at the back of the dresser .
It was so wrinkled and shrunken and withered that it was difficult to say what it might have been .
One could but say that it was black and leathery and that it bore some resemblance to a dwarfish , human figure .
At first , as I examined it , I thought that it was a mummified negro baby , and then it seemed a very twisted and ancient monkey .
Finally I was left in doubt as to whether it was animal or human .
A double band of white shells were strung round the centre of it .
" Very interesting - very interesting , indeed ! " said Holmes , peering at this sinister relic .
" Anything more ? "
In silence Baynes led the way to the sink and held forward his candle .
The limbs and body of some large , white bird , torn savagely to pieces with the feathers still on , were littered all over it .
Holmes pointed to the wattles on the severed head .
" A white cock , " said he .
" Most interesting !
It is really a very curious case . "
But Mr . Baynes had kept his most sinister exhibit to the last .
&gt;From under the sink he drew a zinc pail which contained a quantity of blood .
Then from the table he took a platter heaped with small pieces of charred bone .
" Something has been killed and something has been burned .
We raked all these out of the fire .
We had a doctor in this morning .
He says that they are not human . "
Holmes smiled and rubbed his hands .
" I must congratulate you , Inspector , on handling so distinctive and instructive a case .
Your powers , if I may say so without offence , seem superior to your opportunities . "
Inspector Baynes 's small eyes twinkled with pleasure .
" You 're right , Mr . Holmes .
We stagnate in the provinces .
A case of this sort gives a man a chance , and I hope that I shall take it .
What do you make of these bones ? "
" A lamb , I should say , or a kid . "
" And the white cock ? "
" Curious , Mr . Baynes , very curious .
I should say almost unique . "
" Yes , sir , there must have been some very strange people with some very strange ways in this house .
One of them is dead .
Did his companions follow him and kill him ?
If they did we should have them , for every port is watched .
But my own views are different .
Yes , sir , my own views are very different . "
" You have a theory then ? "
" And I 'll work it myself , Mr . Holmes .
It 's only due to my own credit to do so .
Your name is made , but I have still to make mine .
I should be glad to be able to say afterwards that I had solved it without your help . "
Holmes laughed good-humoredly .
" Well , well , Inspector , " said he .
" Do you follow your path and I will follow mine .
My results are always very much at your service if you care to apply to me for them .
I think that I have seen all that I wish in this house , and that my time may be more profitably employed elsewhere .
Au revoir and good luck ! "
I could tell by numerous subtle signs , which might have been lost upon anyone but myself , that Holmes was on a hot scent .
As impassive as ever to the casual observer , there were none the less a subdued eagerness and suggestion of tension in his brightened eyes and brisker manner which assured me that the game was afoot .
After his habit he said nothing , and after mine I asked no questions .
Sufficient for me to share the sport and lend my humble help to the capture without distracting that intent brain with needless interruption .
All would come round to me in due time .
I waited , therefore - but to my ever-deepening disappointment I waited in vain .
Day succeeded day , and my friend took no step forward .
One morning he spent in town , and I learned from a casual reference that he had visited the British Museum .
Save for this one excursion , he spent his days in long and often solitary walks , or in chatting with a number of village gossips whose acquaintance he had cultivated .
" I 'm sure , Watson , a week in the country will be invaluable to you , " he remarked .
" It is very pleasant to see the first green shoots upon the hedges and the catkins on the hazels once again .
With a spud , a tin box , and an elementary book on botany , there are instructive days to be spent . "
He prowled about with this equipment himself , but it was a poor show of plants which he would bring back of an evening .
Occasionally in our rambles we came across Inspector Baynes .
His fat , red face wreathed itself in smiles and his small eyes glittered as he greeted my companion .
He said little about the case , but from that little we gathered that he also was not dissatisfied at the course of events .
I must admit , however , that I was somewhat surprised when , some five days after the crime , I opened my morning paper to find in large letters :
Holmes sprang in his chair as if he had been stung when I read the headlines .
" By Jove ! " he cried .
" You don 't mean that Baynes has got him ? "
" Apparently , " said I as I read the following report :
" Great excitement was caused in Esher and the neighbouring district when it was learned late last night that an arrest had been effected in connection with the Oxshott murder .
It will be remembered that Mr . Garcia , of Wisteria Lodge , was found dead on Oxshott Common , his body showing signs of extreme violence , and that on the same night his servant and his cook fled , which appeared to show their participation in the crime .
It was suggested , but never proved , that the deceased gentleman may have had valuables in the house , and that their abstraction was the motive of the crime .
Every effort was made by Inspector Baynes , who has the case in hand , to ascertain the hiding place of the fugitives , and he had good reason to believe that they had not gone far but were lurking in some retreat which had been already prepared .
It was certain from the first , however , that they would eventually be detected , as the cook , from the evidence of one or two tradespeople who have caught a glimpse of him through the window , was a man of most remarkable appearance - being a huge and hideous mulatto , with yellowish features of a pronounced negroid type .
This man has been seen since the crime , for he was detected and pursued by Constable Walters on the same evening , when he had the audacity to revisit Wisteria Lodge .
Inspector Baynes , considering that such a visit must have some purpose in view and was likely , therefore , to be repeated , abandoned the house but left an ambuscade in the shrubbery .
The man walked into the trap and was captured last night after a struggle in which Constable Downing was badly bitten by the savage .
We understand that when the prison is brought before the magistrates a remand will be applied for by the police , and that great developments are hoped from his capture . "
" Really we must see Baynes at once , " cried Holmes , picking up his hat .
" We will just catch him before he starts . "
We hurried down the village street and found , as we had expected , that the inspector was just leaving his lodgings .
" You 've seen the paper , Mr . Holmes ? " he asked , holding one out to us .
" Yes , Baynes , I 've seen it .
Pray don 't think it a liberty if I give you a word of friendly warning . "
" Of warning , Mr . Holmes ? "
" I have looked into this case with some care , and I am not convinced that you are on the right lines .
I don 't want you to commit yourself too far unless you are sure . "
" You 're very kind , Mr . Holmes . "
" I assure you I speak for your good . "
It seemed to me that something like a wink quivered for an instant over one of Mr . Baynes 's tiny eyes .
" We agreed to work on our own lines , Mr . Holmes .
That 's what I am doing . "
" Oh , very good , " said Holmes .
" Don 't blame me . "
" No , sir ; I believe you mean well by me .
But we all have our own systems , Mr . Holmes .
You have yours , and maybe I have mine . "
" Let us say no more about it . "
" You 're welcome always to my news .
This fellow is a perfect savage , as strong as a cart-horse and as fierce as the devil .
He chewed Downing 's thumb nearly off before they could master him .
He hardly speaks a word of English , and we can get nothing out of him but grunts . "
" And you think you have evidence that he murdered his late master ? "
" I didn 't say so , Mr . Holmes ; I didn 't say so .
We all have our little ways .
You try yours and I will try mine .
That 's the agreement . "
Holmes shrugged his shoulders as we walked away together .
" I can 't make the man out .
He seems to be riding for a fall .
Well , as he says , we must each try our own way and see what comes of it .
But there 's something in Inspector Baynes which I can 't quite understand . "
" Just sit down in that chair , Watson , " said Sherlock Holmes when we had returned to our apartment at the Bull .
" I want to put you in touch with the situation , as I may need your help to-night .
Let me show you the evolution of this case so far as I have been able to follow it .
Simple as it has been in its leading features , it has none the less presented surprising difficulties in the way of an arrest .
There are gaps in that direction which we have still to fill .
" We will go back to the note which was handed in to Garcia upon the evening of his death .
We may put aside this idea of Baynes 's that Garcia 's servants were concerned in the matter .
The proof of this lies in the fact that it was H E who had arranged for the presence of Scott Eccles , which could only have been done for the purpose of an alibi .
It was Garcia , then , who had an enterprise , and apparently a criminal enterprise , in hand that night in the course of which he met his death .
I say 'criminal ' because only a man with a criminal enterprise desires to establish an alibi .
Who , then , is most likely to have taken his life ?
Surely the person against whom the criminal enterprise was directed .
So far it seems to me that we are on safe ground .
" We can now see a reason for the disappearance of Garcia 's household .
They were A L L confederates in the same unknown crime .
If it came off when Garcia returned , any possible suspicion would be warded off by the Englishman 's evidence , and all would be well .
But the attempt was a dangerous one , and if Garcia did N O T return by a certain hour it was probable that his own life had been sacrificed .
It had been arranged , therefore , that in such a case his two subordinates were to make for some prearranged spot where they could escape investigation and be in a position afterwards to renew their attempt .
That would fully explain the facts , would it not ? "
The whole inexplicable tangle seemed to straighten out before me .
I wondered , as I always did , how it had not been obvious to me before .
" But why should one servant return ? "
" We can imagine that in the confusion of flight something precious , something which he could not bear to part with , had been left behind .
That would explain his persistence , would it not ? "
" Well , what is the next step ? "
" The next step is the note received by Garcia at the dinner .
It indicates a confederate at the other end .
Now , where was the other end ?
I have already shown you that it could only lie in some large house , and that the number of large houses is limited .
My first days in this village were devoted to a series of walks in which in the intervals of my botanical researches I made a reconnaissance of all the large houses and an examination of the family history of the occupants .
One house , and only one , riveted my attention .
It is the famous old Jacobean grange of High Gable , one mile on the farther side of Oxshott , and less than half a mile from the scene of the tragedy .
The other mansions belonged to prosaic and respectable people who live far aloof from romance .
But Mr . Henderson , of High Gable , was by all accounts a curious man to whom curious adventures might befall .
I concentrated my attention , therefore , upon him and his household .
" A singular set of people , Watson - the man himself the most singular of them all .
I managed to see him on a plausible pretext , but I seemed to read in his dark , deepset , brooding eyes that he was perfectly aware of my true business .
He is a man of fifty , strong , active , with iron-gray hair , great bunched black eyebrows , the step of a deer and the air of an emperor - a fierce , masterful man , with a red-hot spirit behind his parchment face .
He is either a foreigner or has lived long in the tropics , for he is yellow and sapless , but tough as whipcord .
His friend and secretary , Mr . Lucas , is undoubtedly a foreigner , chocolate brown , wily , suave , and catlike , with a poisonous gentleness of speech .
You see , Watson , we have come already upon two sets of foreigners - one at Wisteria Lodge and one at High Gable - so our gaps are beginning to close .
" These two men , close and confidential friends , are the centre of the household ; but there is one other person who for our immediate purpose may be even more important .
Henderson has two children - girls of eleven and thirteen .
Their governess is a Miss Burnet , an Englishwoman of forty or thereabouts .
There is also one confidential manservant .
This little group forms the real family , for their travel about together , and Henderson is a great traveller , always on the move .
It is only within the last weeks that he has returned , after a year 's absence , to High Gable .
I may add that he is enormously rich , and whatever his whims may be he can very easily satisfy them .
For the rest , his house is full of butlers , footmen , maidservants , and the usual overfed , underworked staff of a large English country house .
" So much I learned partly from village gossip and partly from my own observation .
There are no better instruments than discharged servants with a grievance , and I was lucky enough to find one .
I call it luck , but it would not have come my way had I not been looking out for it .
As Baynes remarks , we all have our systems .
It was my system which enabled me to find John Warner , late gardener of High Gable , sacked in a moment of temper by his imperious employer .
He in turn had friends among the indoor servants who unite in their fear and dislike of their master .
So I had my key to the secrets of the establishment .
" Curious people , Watson !
I don 't pretend to understand it all yet , but very curious people anyway .
It 's a double-winged house , and the servants live on one side , the family on the other .
There 's no link between the two save for Henderson 's own servant , who serves the family 's meals .
Everything is carried to a certain door , which forms the one connection .
Governess and children hardly go out at all , except into the garden .
Henderson never by any chance walks alone .
His dark secretary is like his shadow .
The gossip among the servants is that their master is terribly afraid of something .
'Sold his soul to the devil in exchange for money , ' says Warner , 'and expects his creditor to come up and claim his own . '
Where they came from , or who they are , nobody has an idea .
They are very violent .
Twice Henderson has lashed at folk with his dog-whip , and only his long purse and heavy compensation have kept him out of the courts .
" Well , now , Watson , let us judge the situation by this new information .
We may take it that the letter came out of this strange household and was an invitation to Garcia to carry out some attempt which had already been planned .
Who wrote the note ?
It was someone within the citadel , and it was a woman .
Who then but Miss Burnet , the governess ?
All our reasoning seems to point that way .
At any rate , we may take it asa hypothesis and see what consequences it would entail .
I may add that Miss Burnet 's age and character make it certain that my first idea that there might be a love interest in our story is out of the question .
" If she wrote the note she was presumably the friend and confederate of Garcia .
What , then , might she be expected to do if she heard of his death ?
If he met it in some nefarious enterprise her lips might be sealed .
Still , in her heart , she must retain bitterness and hatred against those who had killed him and would presumably help so far as she could to have revenge upon them .
Could we see her , then and try to use her ?
That was my first thought .
But now we come to a sinister fact .
Miss Burnet has not been seen by any human eye since the night of the murder .
From that evening she has utterly vanished .
Is she alive ?
Has she perhaps met her end on the same night as the friend whom she had summoned ?
Or is she merely a prisoner ?
There is the point which we still have to decide .
" You will appreciate the difficulty of the situation , Watson .
There is nothing upon which we can apply for a warrant .
Our whole scheme might seem fantastic if laid before a magistrate .
The woman 's disappearance counts for nothing , since in that extraordinary household any member of it might be invisible for a week .
And yet she may at the present moment be in danger of her life .
All I can do is to watch the house and leave my agent , Warner , on guard at the gates .
We can 't let such a situation continue .
If the law can do nothing we must take the risk ourselves . "
" What do you suggest ? "
" I know which is her room .
It is accessible from the top of an outhouse .
My suggestion is that you and I go to-night and see if we can strike at the very heart of the mystery . "
It was not , I must confess , a very alluring prospect .
The old house with its atmosphere of murder , the singular and formidable inhabitants , the unknown dangers of the approach , and the fact that we were putting ourselves legally in a false position all combined to damp my ardour .
But there was something in the icecold reasoning of Holmes which made it impossible to shrink from any adventure which he might recommend .
One knew that thus , and only thus , could a solution be found .
I clasped his hand in silence , and the die was cast .
But it was not destined that our investigation should have so adventurous an ending .
It was about five o 'clock , and the shadows of the March evening were beginning to fall , when an excited rustic rushed into our room .
" They 've gone , Mr . Holmes .
They went by the last train .
The lady broke away , and I 've got her in a cab downstairs . "
" Excellent , Warner ! " cried Holmes , springing to his feet .
" Watson , the gaps are closing rapidly . "
In the cab was a woman , half-collapsed from nervous exhaustion .
She bore upon her aquiline and emaciated face the traces of some recent tragedy .
Her head hung listlessly upon her breast , but as she raised it and turned her dull eyes upon us I saw that her pupils were dark dots in the centre of the broad gray iris .
She was drugged with opium .
" I watched at the gate , same as you advised , Mr . Holmes , " said our emissary , the discharged gardener .
" When the carriage came out I followed it to the station .
She was like one walking in her sleep , but when they tried to get her into the train she came to life and struggled .
They pushed her into the carriage .
She fought her way out again .
I took her part , got her into a cab , and here we are .
I shan 't forget the face at the carriage window as I led her away .
I 'd have a short life if he had his way - the black-eyed , scowling , yellow devil . "
We carried her upstairs , laid her on the sofa , and a couple of cups of the strongest coffee soon cleared her brain from the mists of the drug .
Baynes had been summoned by Holmes , and the situation rapidly explained to him .
" Why , sir , you 've got me the very evidence I want , " said the inspector warmly , shaking my friend by the hand .
" I was on the same scent as you from the first . "
" What !
You were after Henderson ? "
" Why , Mr . Holmes , when you were crawling in the shrubbery at High Gable I was up one of the trees in the plantation and saw you down below .
It was just who would get his evidence first . "
" Then why did you arrest the mulatto ? "
Baynes chuckled .
" I was sure Henderson , as he calls himself , felt that he was suspected , and that he would lie low and make no move so long as he thought he was in any danger .
I arrested the wrong man to make him believe that our eyes were off him .
I knew he would be likely to clear off then and give us a chance of getting at Miss Burnet . "
Holmes laid his hand upon the inspector 's shoulder .
" You will rise high in your profession .
You have instinct and intuition , " said he .
Baynes flushed with pleasure .
" I 've had a plain-clothes man waiting at the station all the week .
Wherever the High Gable folk go he will keep them in sight .
But he must have been hard put to it when Miss Burnet broke away .
However , your man picked her up , and it all ends well .
We can 't arrest without her evidence , that is clear , so the sooner we get a statement the better . "
" Every minute she gets stronger , " said Holmes , glancing at the governess .
" But tell me , Baynes , who is this man Henderson ? "
" Henderson , " the inspector answered , " is Don Murillo , once call the Tiger of San Pedro . "
The Tiger of San Pedro !
The whole history of the man came back to me in a flash .
He had made his name as the most lewd and bloodthirsty tyrant that had ever governed any country with a pretence to civilization .
Strong , fearless , and energetic , he had sufficient virtue to enable him to impose his odious vices upon a cowering people for ten or twelve years .
His name was a terror through all Central America .
At the end of that time there was a universal rising against him .
But he was as cunning as he was cruel , and at the first whisper of coming trouble he had secretly conveyed his treasures aboard a ship which was manned by devoted adherents .
It was an empty palace which was stormed by the insurgents next day .
The dictator , his two children , his secretary , and his wealth had all escaped them .
&gt;From that moment he had vanished from the world , and his identity had been a frequent subject for comment in the European press .
" Yes , sir , Don Murillo , the Tiger of San Pedro , " said Baynes .
" If you look it up you will find that the San Pedro colours are green and white , same as in the note , Mr . Holmes .
Henderson he called himself , but I traced him back , Paris and Rome and Madrid to Barcelona , where his ship came in in '86 .
They 've been looking for him all the time for their revenge , but it is only now that they have begun to find him out . "
" They discovered him a year ago , " said Miss Burnet , who had sat up and was now intently following the conversation .
" Once already his life has been attempted , but some evil spirit shielded him .
Now , again , it is the noble , chivalrous Garcia who has fallen , while the monster goes safe .
But another will come , and yet another , until some day justice will be done ; that is as certain as the rise of to-morrow 's sun . "
Her thin hands clenched , and her worn face blanched with the passion of her hatred .
" But how come you into this matter , Miss Burnet ? " asked Holmes .
" How can an English lady join in such a murderous affair ? "
" I join in it because there is no other way in the world by which justice can be gained .
What does the law of England care for the rivers of blood shed years ago in San Pedro , or for the shipload of treasure which this man has stolen ?
To you they are like crimes committed in some other planet .
But W E know .
We have learned the truth in sorrow and in suffering .
To us there is no fiend in hell like Juan Murillo , and no peace in life while his victims still cry for vengeance . "
" No doubt , " said Holmes , " he was as you say .
I have heard that he was atrocious .
But how are you affected ? "
" I will tell you it all .
This villain 's policy was to murder , on one pretext or another , every man who showed such promise that he might in time come to be a dangerous rival .
My husband - yes , my real name is Signora Victor Durando - was the San Pedro minister in London .
He met me and married me there .
A nobler man never lived upon earth .
Unhappily , Murillo heard of his excellence , recalled him on some pretext , and had him shot .
With a premonition of his fate he had refused to take me with him .
His estates were confiscated , and I was left with a pittance and a broken heart .
" Then came the downfall of the tyrant .
He escaped as you have just described .
But the many whose lives he had ruined , whose nearest and dearest had suffered torture and death at his hands , would not let the matter rest .
They banded themselves into a society which should never be dissolved until the work was done .
It was my part after we had discovered in the transformed Henderson the fallen despot , to attach myself to his household and keep the others in touch with his movements .
This I was able to do by securing the position of governess in his family .
He little knew that the woman who faced him at every meal was the woman whose husband he had hurried at an hour 's notice into eternity .
I smiled on him , did my duty to his children , and bided my time .
An attempt was made in Paris and failed .
We zigzagged swiftly here and there over Europe to throw off the pursuers and finally returned to this house , which he had taken upon his first arrival in England .
" But here also the ministers of justice were waiting .
Knowing that he would return there , Garcia , who is the son of the former highest dignitary in San Pedro , was waiting with two trusty companions of humble station , all three fired with the same reasons for revenge .
He could do little during the day , for Murillo took every precaution and never went out save with his satellite Lucas , or Lopez as he was known in the days of his greatness .
At night , however , he slept alone , and the avenger might find him .
On a certain evening , which had been prearranged , I sent my friend final instructions , for the man was forever on the alert and continually changed his room .
I was to see that the doors were open and the signal of a green or white light in a window which faced the drive was to give notice if all was safe or if the attempt had better be postponed .
" But everything went wrong with us .
In some way I had excited the suspicion of Lopez , the secretary .
He crept up behind me and sprang upon me just as I had finished the note .
He and his master dragged me to my room and held judgment upon me as a convicted traitress .
Then and there they would have plunged their knives into me could they have seen how to escape the consequences of the deed .
Finally , after much debate , they concluded that my murder was too dangerous .
But they determined to get rid forever of Garcia .
They had gagged me , and Murillo twisted my arm round until I gave him the address .
I swear that he might have twisted it off had I understood what it would mean to Garcia .
Lopez addressed the note which I had written , sealed it with his sleeve-link , and sent it by the hand of the servant , Jose .
How they murdered him I do not know , save that it was Murillo 's hand who struck him down , for Lopez had remained to guard me .
I believe he must have waited among the gorse bushes through which the path winds and struck him down as he passed .
At first they were of a mind to let him enter the house and to kill him as a detected burglar ; but they argued that if they were mixed up in an inquiry their own identity would at once be publicly disclosed and they would be open to further attacks .
With the death of Garcia , the pursuit might cease , since such a death might frighten others from the task .
" All would now have been well for them had it not been for my knowledge of what they had done .
I have no doubt that there were times when my life hung in the balance .
I was confined to my room , terrorized by the most horrible threats , cruelly ill-used to break my spirit - see this stab on my shoulder and the bruises from end to end of my arms - and a gag was thrust into my mouth on the one occasion when I tried to call from the window .
For five days this cruel imprisonment continued , with hardly enough food to hold body and soul together .
This afternoon a good lunch was brought me , but the moment after I took it I knew that I had been drugged .
In a sort of dream I remember being half-led , halfcarried to the carriage ; in the same state I was conveyed to the train .
Only then , when the wheels were almost moving , did I suddenly realize that my liberty lay in my own hands .
I sprang out , they tried to drag me back , and had it not been for the help of this good man , who led me to the cab , I should never had broken away .
Now , thank God , I am beyond their power forever . "
We had all listened intently to this remarkable statement .
It was Holmes who broke the silence .
" Our difficulties are not over , " he remarked , shaking his head .
" Our police work ends , but our legal work begins . "
" Exactly , " said I .
" A plausible lawyer could make it out as an act of self-defence .
There may be a hundred crimes in the background , but it is only on this one that they can be tried . "
" Come , come , " said Baynes cheerily , " I think better of the law than that .
Self-defence is one thing .
To entice a man in cold blood with the object of murdering him is another , whatever danger you may fear from him .
No , no , we shall all be justified when we see the tenants of High Gable at the next Guildford Assizes . "
It is a matter of history , however , that a little time was still to elapse before the Tiger of San Pedro should meet with his deserts .
Wily and bold , he and his companion threw their pursuer off their track by entering a lodging-house in Edmonton Street and leaving by the back-gate into Curzon Square .
From that day they were seen no more in England .
Some six months afterwards the Marquess of Montalva and Signor Rulli , his secretary , were both murdered in their rooms at the Hotel Escurial at Madrid .
The crime was ascribed to Nihilism , and the murderers were never arrested .
Inspector Baynes visited us at Baker Street with a printed description of the dark face of the secretary , and of the masterful features , the magnetic black eyes , and the tufted brows of his master .
We could not doubt that justice , if belated , had come at last .
" A chaotic case , my dear Watson , " said Holmes over an evening pipe .
" It will not be possible for you to present in that compact form which is dear to your heart .
It covers two continents , concerns two groups of mysterious persons , and is further complicated by the highly respectable presence of our friend , Scott Eccles , whose inclusion shows me that the deceased Garcia had a scheming mind and a well-developed instinct of selfpreservation .
It is remarkable only for the fact that amid a perfect jungle of possibilities we , with our worthy collaborator , the inspector , have kept our close hold on the essentials and so been guided along the crooked and winding path .
Is there any point which is not quite clear to you ? "
" The object of the mulatto cook 's return ? "
" I think that the strange creature in the kitchen may account for it .
The man was a primitive savage from the backwoods of San Pedro , and this was his fetish .
When his companion and he had fled to some prearranged retreat - already occupied , no doubt by a confederate - the companion had persuaded him to leave so compromising an article of furniture .
But the mulatto 's heart was with it , and he was driven back to it next day , when , on reconnoitering through the window , he found policeman Walters in possession .
He waited three days longer , and then his piety or his superstition drove him to try once more .
Inspector Baynes , who , with his usual astuteness , had minimized the incident before me , had really recognized its importance and had left a trap into which the creature walked .
Any other point , Watson ? "
" The torn bird , the pail of blood , the charred bones , all the mystery of that weird kitchen ? "
Holmes smiled as he turned up an entry in his note-book .
" I spent a morning in the British Museum reading up on that and other points .
Here is a quotation from Eckermann 's Voodooism and the Negroid Religions :
" 'The true voodoo-worshipper attempts nothing of importance without certain sacrifices which are intended to propitiate his unclean gods .
In extreme cases these rites take the form of human sacrifices followed by cannibalism .
The more usual victims are a white cock , which is plucked in pieces alive , or a black goat , whose throat is cut and body burned . '
" So you see our savage friend was very orthodox in his ritual .
It is grotesque , Watson , " Holmes added , as he slowly fastened his notebook , " but , as I have had occasion to remark , there is but one step from the grotesque to the horrible . "